# notary-web-app
Notary web application for LRmobilenotary notary services. Initially created without repository.

Created with vite+react, this application utilizes an Express server to make secure calls to Google Place Autocomplete API, Google Directions API, as well as using EmailJS SDK. This web app gives users an option to retrieve a free quote based off of the selection of their desired services, and the final quote includes the calculated cost of gas for the mobile signing agent, derived from the distance from the origin ( business address ), to the user inputted signing location. The application also gives users an option to choose an appointment date/time, using the react-calendar component for a complete visualization of available dates/times. Upon selection, the time is then disabled and unavalible for selection for the given date, if the chosen appointment is a weekday, the entire date tile is blocked off. (signing agent allows only one signing per weekday). The appointment is officially requested once the user finishes the input form with the necessary information, and sends an email directly through the mobile notary website. ( The text area will contain all of the users inputs once the form is complete, and a send button will appear. ) The chosen date/time is then added to an SQL database, as well as a pending appointments JSON file in the express server application. If the appointment is of pending status, the appointment is disabled and no longer available for selection on the calendar component. Appointment times are blocked 2hrs and 30min before and after each selected appointment. If no appointments are left for the day, the entire date tile will become disabled. On the applications admin page, the business owner has the ability to accept or reject pending appointments after qualifying the users sent email. ( If accepted, an "Accepted" status will then be added to the correlating appointment in the mySQL databse. If rejected, it is removed. ) If the user selects an appointment, and does not choose to send an email with the necessary information, it is removed from the database (unfortunately, at the moment it is only removed upon the business owners visitation to the admin page. Will be fixing this functionality after deployment). The admin page also allows the business owner to update hours for each individual day, block off spans of dates (vacation, obligations, etc. ), and block out appointment times for a given date, with a before and after buffer. To access the admin page, there is a login form in which the business owner inputs their username and password to access the page. The credentials are stored in the mySQL database in a separate table, and the password is encrypted and compared with the inputted password within the logic of the Express server.

I neglected to start this repository until further into the development process, the first initialization consisted of a partially completed web application. Snce the initial push, I have refactored (mostly simplifying/altering CSS and JS/JSX, as well as working on responsiveness for different devices/browsers), as well as adding more functionality to the website (appointment setter and SQL database for appointment information storage/appointment blockage, and admin page functionality). My decision to use Moment.js to compare dates, was due to the nature of parsing of the moment.js objects (parsing date objects is unavailable in luxon.js). I am aware of the drawbacks of using the Moment library, and am in the process of researching other methods for a smoother experience and cleaner code. In the future, I will add googles terms of service (stated necessary upon usage of google places autocomplete), as well as adding a recaptcha for the email to prevent spamming of business email (needs to be done after deployment).








